Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. programing language is an intermediate language between humans and the machine.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. JDK,or Java Development Kit, is composed of:
 =>Java Runtime Environment (JRE) which contains JVM (java virtual machine).
 =>Java( an interpreter), JAVAC (a compiler)'
 =>an archiver (jar), javadoc and other development tools.

What is IDE?
A. Interface Development Environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A. Eclipse,Intellij,NetBeans,Amazon Corretto,
   Oracle JDeveloper,Xcode,Visual Studio...

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A. Java life cycle consist of;
 =>Editing the program=> Compiling the source code=> Loading,verifying =>Executing the bite code.

what is class?
A.In JAVA, a class is a Blueprint.

What is object?
A. it is an instance of a class.

What is the entry point of an application?
A. The entry point of an application is the main method.

Why main is static?
A. Because the class can be called without creating an object.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A. Object class is the root superclass of the class hierarchy.

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A. Path is set for java tools in java programs like java and javac,used to compile the code.
   Classpath is used by System or Application class loader to locate and load compile Java bytecodes
   stored in the .class file.

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A interface can not be implemented and the variables are final,
    Abstract class can have instance method that implements a default behavior,
    and may contain a non-final variables

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. No, we can not.
   We can use it by creating a different name and use it as an object.

what is Access Specifier?
A. They are entities,or keywords provided by Java, used to restrict or specify
   the accessibility or visibility of a package,class,constructor,method or
   other dat members.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A. OOP stands for Object Oriented Program:
      a. Inheritance: it is about classes, a class can be extended to an other class.
      b. Polymorphism: it is about methods.
      c: Encapsulation: Data hiding(protecting the data).
      d. Abstraction: it is an implementation hiding.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. Java package is a folder that holds alla different java classes.
   The package which imported by default is java.lang

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A. API stands for Application Programming Interface.
   so far we use Java API.

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A. NO,Java does not support multiple inheritance,
   because it can only extend to one class.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A. Two methods with the same name but different parameters,
   It happens during the compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
A. we have Compile time exception and Runtime exception;
   The try-catch is the simplest method of handling exceptions.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A. the keyword static means that the particular member belongs to a type itself,
   rather than to an instance of that type.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A. Final variable or method means we can not change it later.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A. =>Final is used for methods and variables.
   =>Finally is associated with try and catch block
   =>Finalized is used with garbage collection.

What is a constructor ?
A.It is a code similar to a method called when we create an object.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A. Yes , we can have multiple constructor in one class.
If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A. A default constructor will be crated.
What is "this" keyword in java ?
A. It is used to Link a Global variable to a Local variable.
What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A. it is a keyword that can evoque the proprieties of the super class.
   we can use it for variables and methods.

What is JVM stand for ?
A. Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A. Yes.
What version of java are you using?
A. i am using java 11.0.15

What is JAR stand for ?
A. JAR stand for Java Archive.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.JVM is an environment , and JDK is a platform.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JRE is an environment, in order to execute any Java program locally,
  while JVM responsible for converting the Bytecode into machine specific code
  and makes java program write-once-run-anywhere.

What is compile time and run time?
A. Compile time is when we enter code and run-time is when the machine execute the codes.

What is heap?
A. It is a dynamic memory used in java.

How java manage it's memory?
A. By using the Garbage Collection(to clean the non used object to free memory).

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A. String is immutable whereas StringBuffer and StringBuilder are mutable classes.

What is Singleton class?
A. Singleton is Object Hiding.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is the conversion of the state of an object into a byte stream;
  Deserialization does the opposite.

when to use transient variable in java?
A. Transient in Java is used to indicate that a field should not be part of the serialization process.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A while loop checks the conditions first then run, do-while loop Run first then check the conditions.

What is Enum?
A. Enumeration,a special class that uses predefined variables.

What is Iterator?
A. it is an object that enable a programmer to traverse a container.
   It is an object that can be used to loop through collections, like ArrayList and HashSet.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A. Integer will take more memory (16 bytes)
   Int is a primitive data type that takes only 4 bytes.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A. Because String objects are cached in the String pool.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A. It is the process of calling a constructor from an other constructor.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A. Serial garbage collector uses a single thread for garbage collection process,
   while the parallel garbage collector uses multiple threads for the garbage collection.

What is JIT stands for?
A. It's a compiler and stand for Just-In-Time.

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.Java objects reside in an area called the heap,
  When the heap becomes full, garbage is collected;
  java moves garbage collection to heap memory to free the memory for the new objects.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A. NO.
   possible for a programmer to mistakenly create objects which never go out of scope,
   thus consuming more and more memory until all heap is exhausted.

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. Stack stores Static variables while Heap stores Dynamic variables.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A. Reflection is a feature in the Java programming language.
   It allows an executing Java program to examine and manipulate internal properties of the program.

what is multithreading in java?
A. it is having multi threads in one main method.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A. it is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to any shared resource.

What is Framework?
A. it is the body or platform of already written codes.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.Junit, Selenium,Testing,Serenity,Gauge...
Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.Junit is an open-source framework, testNg is a java based framework.

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.Junit and Maven.
what is dependency injection in java?
A. when using ans external library.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.the binding uses type information for binding while dynamic binding uses objects to resolve to bind.









